The Joe Rogan experience. It was a fake video that I sent Jamie today. These.
Yeah. They keep getting me. There's a new fake video. I think that.
Was the same one. I think there's, someone's took another clip from it. Oh,
is it? Those guys have been making VFX videos on YouTube for 10 plus years.
They're really good at.
It. So this it's so good.
For people who don't know, there's a YouTube channel where people, I think,
think it's a single YouTube channel, uh, that does like, yeah.
Visual effects like fake humanoid or yes, robot,
dog, uh, robots that kind of resembles something like Boston dynamics who do,
this is one crazy stuff with guns.
And yeah, this one, they gave the robot a gun and have, see if you pull it up.
Jamie, what, what is the gentle, the, uh.
Corridor digital on YouTube is the guys that keep that make it quarter crew as
the YouTube.
Channel. I think incredible that it's not real. It looks so real. And so the,
uh, the robot, they kick it,
they hit it with a hockey helmet or a hockey stick rather.
Is there like long video.
They made a while ago? They might have made a new one,
which is one out in desert. But I think I've, I'd.
Seen it for, uh, I see they, they trick you with the Boston dynamics.
It's boss town. <laugh> bostontown dynamics.
<Laugh>.
It looks so realistic, but here's the thing.
We're not that far off from this thing. No.
Okay. Okay. Let's let's let's walk it back. Let's walk it back.
It it's not realistic.
Uh.
In what way? So let,
it looks human realistic so you can tell it's a human <affirmative> like a
robotics person could tell it's a human,
because it's really difficult to do that kind of motion. That kind of movement.
Oh, like when it's getting shot.
Well, not the getting shot, so there's a lot of movement.
It does for the purpose of comedy, right? Like it actually is on purpose,
trying to look like a human for comedic internet effect,
like getting a human that's getting off and so on. Yes.
Those qualities are like another order of.
Agnitude like this here, where it's like, gimme that. Come on. Gimme that.
Gimme that. Come on guys. Aw, come on. So for a term.
Oh yeah. <laugh>.
Yeah. Ah.
Do Brucely type of, uh, movements. Some of those are just comedic, you know,
you don't need term, uh, type robot that, right.
But they do have legitimate robots that can do back flips now and
do.
So. It's a really, it's really, it is a backli part. This.
This one is real.
This is all real it's manipulation. So all of these robots, uh,
depending on what we're talking about here,
but those are remote controlled and these are single demonstrate ations that
they've perfected. So they're,
it's really important to distinguish between the body of the robot and
the brain of the robot. So these bodies, unlike anything else, unlike a Roomba,
unlike a drone who can also be very threatening the,
these bodies somehow <laugh> we anthroppomorphies them.
And they terrify us. I don't know what it is. I met spot mini in person.
That was one of the most transformative moments in my life, really,
because I know how dumb it is, but the experience of it,
like it's not even a head, it's supposed to be a hand, but it looks like a head.
And it like looking up at me with that hand, I felt like I was like, I,
it was magic. It was like a, um, it was like Frankenstein coming to life.
It was this moment of creation.
And what I realized is my own brain sort of anthropomorphizing the same way.
You're like looking at these robots and you're thinking these things,
it terrifying. Yeah. Like what's like, you know, in 10, 20 years,
where are we gonna be? Yeah. The that's our brain playing tricks on us.
Cuz the key thing that's a threat to humanity or an exciting possibility for
humanity is the intelligence of the robots, the brains, the mind,
and these robots have very, very little intelligence. So one of,
so in terms of being able to perceive and understand the world,
very importantly, very importantly,
to be learn to learn about the world from scratch.
So the terrifying thing is you talked often like with this sort of philosophical
kind of notion that Sam Harris talks about sort of exponential improvement,
be able to become human intelligence,
superhuman level intelligence in a matter of days,
become more intelligent than that. That's all learning process.
That's being able to learn.
That's the key aspect where in the very early days of that, there's um,
there's an idea of, you know,
big bang is a funny word for one of the most fundamental ideas in the,
the R universe. Same way.
Self play is a term for, uh,
I think one of the most important,
powerful ideas and artificial intelligence that,
that people are currently working on. So self play, I,
I don't know if you're familiar with a company called deep mind and open AI
mm-hmm <affirmative> so Google deep mind, uh, and a game.
I know you're first person, some shooter guy, but uh, StarCraft and Dota two.
So last year these are, what do you call them real time strategy,
I guess in people who win millions of dollars in eSport competitions.
And so open AI separately had, uh, open AI five,
which took on Dota two, Dota two is the computer game based on workcraft three,
that's the most popular eesport game.
And then deep mine took on StarCraft with their alpha star system.
And the key amazing thing is there similar to alpha go and alpha zero that
learned to play go is the mechanism of self play.
That's the exciting mechanism that I think if you can fit out how to have
an impact on more serious problems than games would be transformative. Okay,
what is it it's learning from scratch in a competitive environment.
So thinking of you have two white belts, sorry, go going to Jitsu.
You have,
you have two white belts training against each other and trying to figure out
how to beat each other without ever having blackball supervision and structures
and so on and slowly getting better that way coming up,
inventing new moves that way. And eventually they,
they get better and better by that competitive process.
That's the machine playing itself without human supervision.
The interesting thing is there's a lot of cases in which if you set up the
competitive environment well enough for those two white belts,
they'll learn to be black belts. They'll learn to be not only black belts,
they'll learn to be better than like exactly the kind of evolution that's
happening at MMA right now. If you put that in a digital space and speed it up,
you know, a millionfold it'll continue to.
Improve.
Let me pause you here because this is one of the things that I think probably
translates to AI as it does to jujitsu, you need more than one opponent.
Like you can't have one input,
one person training with one person specifically and singularly,
you're not going to develop the type of game that you need to become
a real black belt in. Jusu a hundred percent. Exactly.
Yeah. So that's part of the brilliance of this mechanism. So, uh,
imagine you didn't just have white belts,
you had a opportunity to generate a new random white belt, like a,
like a fat big one. Mm-hmm <affirmative> a little one, right?
And all kinds of different one that loves aggress. One named daddy, Bravo,
a passive one, a passive one, and then, and let them play.
And then mm-hmm <affirmative> so it, this,
what you find is like digittsu might be simpler than the general problem sort
of, of different kind of, of like, uh stockcrafts and so on.
There is sets of strategies in this giant space there,
these complex hierarchical strategies,
like high level strategies and then specifics of different moves that emerge
some of which you didn't even realize existed.
And that requires that you start with the huge amounts of random initial states,
like the, the fat person and the skinny person, aggressive person, so on.
And then you also keep injecting randomness in the system.
So you discover new ideas. So even when you reach purple belt,
you don't continue with those same people. You start your own school,
you start like you start expanding to totally random new ideas and expanding
this way.
And what you find out is there's totally surprising to beings like in the game
of chess or in the game of go in the game of StarCraft, these,
this self-play mechanism can do what sort of AI people have dreamed of,
which is be creative, create totally new behaviors, totally new strategies.
That're surprising to human experts.
That's why go was so astounding to them, right?
Because it's such a complex game.
Such a hard game and, and it's able to, well,
the first astounding thing is able to beat the world champion at yeah.
The second astounding thing about both chess and go is it's able to create
totally new ideas, sort of,
I'm not good enough at Chester go to understand the newness of them,
but grand masters talk about the way alpha, alpha zero, uh,
plays chess. And they say there's a lot of brilliant, interesting ideas there.
Mm like very counterintuitive ideas. And that's such a,
and that's all the first breakthroughs didn't have as much self- play.
They were trained on human experts,
but alpha zero and alpha star and open AI five,
these systems are all fundamentally self-play meaning no human supervision
starting from scratch. So no blackball, instructort you just, you general.
And that means, so they learning from scratch.
That's the that's exceptionally powerful you.
So that that's a process from zero.
You can get the superhuman level intelligence in a particular task
in a matter of days. Mm. Right. That's, that's super powerful, super exciting,
super terrifying. If that's kind of what you think about the,
the channel challenges. We don't know how to do that in the physical space,
in the space of robots,
there's something fundamentally different about being able to perceive,
to understand this environment, to do common sense reasoning.
The thing we really take for granted is our ability to reason about the physics
of the world,
about the fact that things weigh things that you can stack things on top of each
other, the fact that some things are hard, some things are soft,
some things are, are, um, painful when you touch 'em all that,
like there seems to be a giant Wikipedia inside our brain of like common sense,
dumb logic. That's very tough to build up that this,
yeah, that's, that's, it seems to be an exceptionally difficult, um,
learning problem that Boston dynamics will have to solve in order to achieve
even the same kind of, um,
physical movement behavior that we saw in those videos. And then on top of that,
to have the ethical behavior, the, the,
not the ethical sort of the object,
the complex strategies involved in first following orders and then getting
frustrated and then shooting everybody. <laugh>,
that's an exceptionally difficult thing to arrive at because ultimately these
systems operate an on set, a set of objectives.
And what a lot of people that think about artificial general,
inte say the objectives we need to inject in these systems
that they're trained on need to have one uncertainty.
So they should always doubt themselves.
Just like if you want to be a good black belt,
you should always be sort of always open minded, sort of, uh, relax,
always need, learn techniques. It's okay to get submitted. So always, um,
always have a degree of uncertainty about your worldview,
the kind of thing we criticized, uh, Twitter outrage,
mobs for not having so having uncertainty. And the other thing is always have,
uh, a place where there should be human supervision. And I think I just,
there's a,
I think we have good mechanisms for that in place that I think, um,
I, I'm very optimistic about where these kinds of learning systems can take us.
The exciting thing is Boston danielette well terrifying depending on
whether you think I'm a trustworthy human being,
but the Boston dynamics is not opening up their platform.
So they're working with a few people I'm trying to make,
I'm quite busy these days. So I'm trying to make time to make it happen,
to work with them, to build stuff on top of the platform. So, sorry,
I'm referring to spot mini as a platform-hmm <affirmative>.
So this robot is this. It's like a Roomba,
it's a dumb mechanistic thing that can move for you, but you can build,
you can add a brain on top of it, so you can make it learn. You can make it,
see the world. And so on. That's all extra.
That's not what Boston dynamics offers.
So they wanna work with people like me to, to add that kind of capability.
And that's exciting cuz now you can have hundreds of people start to add
interesting learning capabilities. And so I may,
I may have to retract my words about how far away we are with the capabilities
of these robots. Once you now open up to the internet.
So I was speaking to Boston dynamics.
I think they're solving the really hard robotics problem,
but once you open it up to the huge world of researchers that are doing machine
learning and doing computer vision and doing AI research,
the kind of capabilities that might add to these robots might surprise us,
especially, especially.
That's where people are concerned, right? The big leaps, the big leaps,
and then sort of just not being aware,
the consequences of these big leaps. And once you let the genie outta,
you can never put it back.
Right?
The genie and the self play mechanism where you grow from zero to becoming
world class chess player, that's, that's the genie being out of the bottle.
I.